{
  "pushCert": "certificate version 0.1\npusher F41A2656 1545925591 +0100\nnonce AJbGYzm8XMMWvkyS1hE7Juz4ooduJhpDgl5uiszyJbV91nM7r+x7RPQ46Exu/ImkgBrrpVESCjbD\n\n0000000000000000000000000000000000000000 bf9864ee304d9b1bc52a2095085704212e5497b1 refs/for/master\n-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----\nVersion: GnuPG v1\n\niQEcBAABAgAGBQJcJPPXAAoJEHFVO370GiZWJgwH/3SW7ks1O+Tz1rT+jRtSQz3n\n0VnIhnZTWCG2yEb6xBugooQ7U02Ty4g5Oyov4cnj+EgtGVpZl4vBhQ7LCa4DEA9r\nHSkvftoM4QnaQkRchNwSwFSCxtpr8YVSalBteIEjbF2tsMlh6nRjBW39T0R6NSFA\nQuiq064OPmwdDZV4FGT5AMyMYZXKg4sm700pmo8d9wEm/THae39Dphd7N2c8r6tj\nLa7eFh7M1v8D15HSfmE6fvwakPRlfJjXz/bu3sgUlPkRPr3FyzUMKpzDEm0A0+TU\nKmR3UmZecLLb9xfmYSz6Ajrg+cYnzUA/KsyVL4r8TL1bBr8EH5dh2VHqmCOYxz8\u003d\n\u003dttNC\n-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----\n",
  "comments": [
    {
      "key": {
        "uuid": "703af541_2fd757c7",
        "filename": "Documentation/dev-contributing.txt",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 334,
      "author": {
        "id": 1006192
      },
      "writtenOn": "2018-12-27T22:10:56Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "I do not believe we ever waited for all features to be complete to cut the RC0 ;-)\nBut we should definitely wait for them to cut the first stable release (e.g. 2.16) or flag them as experimental (e.g. Polygerrit, NoteDb, Git v2)",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 334,
        "startChar": 11,
        "endLine": 334,
        "endChar": 56
      },
      "revId": "bf9864ee304d9b1bc52a2095085704212e5497b1",
      "serverId": "173816e5-2b9a-37c3-8a2e-48639d4f1153",
      "unresolved": true
    },
    {
      "key": {
        "uuid": "2ca879c4_cd847415",
        "filename": "Documentation/dev-contributing.txt",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 334,
      "author": {
        "id": 1003935
      },
      "writtenOn": "2018-12-28T06:57:36Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "Yeah, this is why we have the rule below which allow exceptions for features that are either important or low risk.",
      "parentUuid": "703af541_2fd757c7",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 334,
        "startChar": 11,
        "endLine": 334,
        "endChar": 56
      },
      "revId": "bf9864ee304d9b1bc52a2095085704212e5497b1",
      "serverId": "173816e5-2b9a-37c3-8a2e-48639d4f1153",
      "unresolved": false
    },
    {
      "key": {
        "uuid": "f110839c_af9c2a49",
        "filename": "Documentation/dev-contributing.txt",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 342,
      "author": {
        "id": 1006192
      },
      "writtenOn": "2018-12-27T22:10:56Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "Seems a bit selfish IMHO. Can we change it to \"the Gerrit community\" and if they are \"backward compatible\" with existing configuration, data, and plugins?\n\nPeople may accept to have new non-breaking features on stable branches, but they are definitely not expecting that plugins won\u0027t work anymore because of breaking changes in the APIs.",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 341,
        "startChar": 81,
        "endLine": 342,
        "endChar": 16
      },
      "revId": "bf9864ee304d9b1bc52a2095085704212e5497b1",
      "serverId": "173816e5-2b9a-37c3-8a2e-48639d4f1153",
      "unresolved": true
    },
    {
      "key": {
        "uuid": "2c3d6301_93720317",
        "filename": "Documentation/dev-contributing.txt",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 342,
      "author": {
        "id": 1003935
      },
      "writtenOn": "2018-12-28T06:57:36Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "Well, I think it\u0027s just natural and matches reality that those that contribute to the project have more influence, but saying \"Gerrit community\" here seems to me as good.\n\nI\u0027ve added \"backwards compatible\" to list of criterias that should be matched, but without explaining what that means in details as I think that would blow up this point too much.",
      "parentUuid": "f110839c_af9c2a49",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 341,
        "startChar": 81,
        "endLine": 342,
        "endChar": 16
      },
      "revId": "bf9864ee304d9b1bc52a2095085704212e5497b1",
      "serverId": "173816e5-2b9a-37c3-8a2e-48639d4f1153",
      "unresolved": false
    },
    {
      "key": {
        "uuid": "d37331da_1fea60fa",
        "filename": "Documentation/dev-contributing.txt",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 343,
      "author": {
        "id": 1006192
      },
      "writtenOn": "2018-12-27T22:10:56Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "Can we add \"and the community on the mailing list?\"",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 343,
        "startChar": 34,
        "endLine": 343,
        "endChar": 45
      },
      "revId": "bf9864ee304d9b1bc52a2095085704212e5497b1",
      "serverId": "173816e5-2b9a-37c3-8a2e-48639d4f1153",
      "unresolved": true
    },
    {
      "key": {
        "uuid": "9c9c0fdc_e649a2c4",
        "filename": "Documentation/dev-contributing.txt",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 343,
      "author": {
        "id": 1003935
      },
      "writtenOn": "2018-12-28T06:57:36Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "I\u0027ve change it to \"Gerrit community\". I think the mailing list should not be mentioned to avoid the impression that each feature on a stable branch must be discussed on the mailing list, e.g. having a discussion on the change that proposes the feature for a stable branch should be sufficient.",
      "parentUuid": "d37331da_1fea60fa",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 343,
        "startChar": 34,
        "endLine": 343,
        "endChar": 45
      },
      "revId": "bf9864ee304d9b1bc52a2095085704212e5497b1",
      "serverId": "173816e5-2b9a-37c3-8a2e-48639d4f1153",
      "unresolved": false
    },
    {
      "key": {
        "uuid": "356f3dbc_b700f047",
        "filename": "Documentation/dev-contributing.txt",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 345,
      "author": {
        "id": 1006192
      },
      "writtenOn": "2018-12-27T22:10:56Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "After having consulted the Gerrit community on the mailing list.",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 345,
        "startChar": 17,
        "endLine": 345,
        "endChar": 32
      },
      "revId": "bf9864ee304d9b1bc52a2095085704212e5497b1",
      "serverId": "173816e5-2b9a-37c3-8a2e-48639d4f1153",
      "unresolved": true
    },
    {
      "key": {
        "uuid": "693270e7_a75dd7a2",
        "filename": "Documentation/dev-contributing.txt",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 345,
      "author": {
        "id": 1003935
      },
      "writtenOn": "2018-12-28T06:57:36Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "I intentionally didn\u0027t want to mention how the decision is made. Especially I think that it should not be required to have a mailing list discussion for each and every little feature that is accepted on a stable branch. Discussing, or even just voting, on Gerrit changes seems better to me, but of course discussions on the mailing are possible when they are needed.\n\nI\u0027ve added that the decision should be based on these rules and opinions from the Gerrit community.",
      "parentUuid": "356f3dbc_b700f047",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 345,
        "startChar": 17,
        "endLine": 345,
        "endChar": 32
      },
      "revId": "bf9864ee304d9b1bc52a2095085704212e5497b1",
      "serverId": "173816e5-2b9a-37c3-8a2e-48639d4f1153",
      "unresolved": false
    }
  ]
}