---
title: " Gerrit Code Review - Robot Comments"
sidebar: gerritdoc_sidebar
permalink: config-robot-comments.html
---
Gerrit has special support for inline comments that are generated by
automated third-party systems, so called "robot comments". For example
robot comments can be used to represent the results of code analyzers.

In contrast to regular inline comments which are free-text comments,
robot comments are more structured and can contain additional data, such
as a robot ID, a robot run ID and a URL, see
[RobotCommentInfo](rest-api-changes.html#robot-comment-info) for
details.

It is planned to visualize robot comments differently in the web UI so
that they can be easily distinguished from human comments. Users should
also be able to use filtering on robot comments, so that only part of
the robot comments or no robot comments are shown. In addition it is
planned that robot comments can contain fixes, that users can apply by a
single click.

## REST endpoints

  - Posting robot comments is done by the [Set
    Review](rest-api-changes.html) REST endpoint. The
    [input](rest-api-changes.html#review-input) for this REST endpoint
    can contain robot comments in its `robot_comments` field.

  - [List Robot Comments](rest-api-changes.html#list-robot-comments)

  - [Get Robot Comment](rest-api-changes.html#get-robot-comment)

## Storage

Robot comments are stored per change in a
`refs/changes/XX/YYYY/robot-comments` ref, where `XX/YYYY` is the
sharded change ID.

Robot comments can be dropped by deleting this ref.

## Limitations

  - Robot comments are only supported with NoteDb, but not with
    ReviewDb.

  - Robot comments are not displayed in the web UI yet.

  - There is no support for draft robot comments, but robot comments are
    always published and visible to everyone who can see the change.

## GERRIT

Part of [Gerrit Code Review](index.html)

## SEARCHBOX

