= missing Change-Id in commit message footer

With this error message Gerrit rejects to push a commit to a project
which is configured to always require a Change-Id in the commit
message if the commit message of the pushed commit does not contain
a Change-Id in the footer (the last paragraph).

This error may happen for different reasons:

. missing Change-Id in the commit message
. Change-Id is contained in the commit message but not in the last
  paragraph

You can see the commit messages for existing commits in the history
by doing a link:http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/git-log.html[git log].

To avoid this error you should use the link:cmd-hook-commit-msg.html[commit hook] or EGit to
automatically create and insert a unique Change-Id into the commit
message on every commit.


== Missing Change-Id in the commit message

If the commit message of a commit that you want to push does not
contain a Change-Id you have to update its commit message and insert
a Change-Id.

If you want to upload a new change to Gerrit make sure that you have
configured your environment so that a unique Change-Id is
automatically created and inserted on every commit as explained
above. Now you can rewrite the commits for which the Change-Ids are
missing and the Change-Ids will be automatically created and inserted
into the commit messages. This is explained link:error-push-fails-due-to-commit-message.html#commit_hook[here].

If you want to update an existing change in Gerrit by uploading a new
patch set you should copy its Change-Id from the Gerrit Web UI and
insert it into the commit message. How to update the commit message
is explained link:error-push-fails-due-to-commit-message.html[here].


== Change-Id is contained in the commit message but not in the last paragraph

To be picked up by Gerrit, a Change-Id must be in the last paragraph
of a commit message, for details, see link:user-changeid.html[Change-Id Lines].

If the Change-Id is contained in the commit message but not in its
last paragraph you have to update the commit message and move the
Change-Id into the last paragraph. How to update the commit message
is explained link:error-push-fails-due-to-commit-message.html[here].


GERRIT
------
Part of link:error-messages.html[Gerrit Error Messages]

SEARCHBOX
---------
