:linkattrs:
= Push fails due to commit message

If Gerrit rejects pushing a commit it is often the case that there is
an issue with the commit message of the pushed commit. In this case
the problem can often be resolved by fixing the commit message.

If the commit message of the last commit needs to be fixed you can
simply amend the last commit (please find a detailed description in
the link:http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/git-commit.html[Git documentation,role=external,window=_blank]):

----
  $ git commit --amend
----

If you need to fix the commit messages of several commits or of any
commit other than the last one you have to do an interactive git
rebase for the affected commits. While doing the interactive rebase
you can e.g. choose 'reword' for those commits for which you want to
fix the commit messages. For a detailed description of git rebase
please check the link:http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/git-rebase.html[Git documentation,role=external,window=_blank].

Please use interactive git rebase with care as it rewrites existing
commits. Generally you should never rewrite commits that have already
been submitted in Gerrit.

[[commit_hooks]]
Sometimes commit hooks are used to automatically insert/update
information in the commit message. If such information is missing in
the commit message of existing commits (e.g. because the commit hook
was only configured later) rewriting the commits will (re)execute the
commit hook and so update the commit messages. If you do an
interactive rebase to achieve this make sure that the affected
commits are really rewritten, e.g. by choosing 'reword' for all these
commits and then confirming all the commit messages. Just picking a
commit may not rewrite it.


GERRIT
------
Part of link:error-messages.html[Gerrit Error Messages]

SEARCHBOX
---------
