= Inline Edit

Changes can be created and amended directly in broswer. This is a guide
through the inline edit feature that explains the complete and partial
browser based workflow.

[[create-change]]
== Creating Empty Changes

When a chane was already uploaded to Gerrit it can be amended, later more on
this. New change can be created directly in browser, no need to clone the
whole repository to make trivial changes. There two different ways how empty
changes can be created: in project info screen by clicking on "Create Change"
button and in change screen by clicking on "Follow-Up" button. In former case
an empty change is created in specified project and in later case an empty
change is created as follow-up change of selected change.

[[create-change-from-project-info-screen]]

image::images/inline-edit-create-change-project-screen.png[width=800, link="images/inline-edit-create-change-project-screen.png"]

[[create-change-from-change-screen]]

image::images/inline-edit-create-follow-up-change.png[width=800, link="images/inline-edit-create-follow-up-change.png"]

[[amending-change]]
== Amending Changes

To create a change edit commit message or file must be changed. Once
change edit is created it can be deleted, published or rebased. The normal
workflow is create a change edit by changing commit message or a file content
and publish it. Publishing change edit promotes it to normal revision. Once
change edit is published, the Git ref that represents change edit is deleted.

Files can be added, removed, restored and modified in context of change
edit. The main navigation interface for manipulating existing and adding
restoring and deleting files in change edit is file table. It was extended for
inline edit feature to support additional mode: Edit Mode. To switch between
"Edit Mode" and "Review Mode" new "Edit" button is exposed on file table
header. In "Edit Mode" restore and delete icons are added in frint of files
and hyperlinks navigates to Edit Screen instead of Side By Side screen.

[[create-change-edit-by-editing-commit-message]]

By clicking on "Edit Message" button in change screen header, new change edit
is created.

image::images/inline-edit-create-edit-by-changing-commit-message.png[width=800, link="images/inline-edit-create-edit-by-changing-commit-message.png"]

When change edit created, the file table preserves "Edit Mode" to seamlessly
allow further change edit manipulations or change edit publishing. 

GERRIT
------
Part of link:index.html[Gerrit Code Review]

SEARCHBOX
---------
